# HASH FUNCTION BASED POST QUANTUM CRYPTOSYSTEM OF LAMPORT DIFFIE AND WINTERNITZ DIGITAL SIGNATURE SCHEME

The hash based digital signature schemes appears to be advantageous in the upcoming quantum era because of the quantum threats to the digital signature schemes based. number theory. Cryptographers and security experts around the world suggested that one day large-scale quantum computers may be available sooner. Most of the publickey cryptosystems employed today on the Internet are based on number-theoretic problems that is intractable on a classical computer and hence are considered secure. However, these schemes offer no security against an adversary in possession of a largescale quantum computer. The Shor’s algorithm is available to allow a sufficiently powerful quantum computer to break the building blocks of the number theory-based signature schemes in a polynomial time. Thus, there is an urgent need to develop, analyze and implement cryptosystems and algorithms that are secure against such adversaries. It is widely believed that cryptographic hash functions are naturally resilient to attacks by a quantum adversary, and thus, signature schemes have been developed whose security relies on this belief. Therefore, the objective of this research is to investigate post quantum cryptosystems of digital signatures schemes especially Digital Signature Scheme of Lamport-Diffie One Time Signature and Winternitz. Besides, the programming for both digital signature scheme has been built. Moreover, the efficiency of both digital signature schemes both schemes were analysed using mathematical algorithm and computational time. The research conducted to describe the use of hash functions in digital signature schemes and examine the efficiency analysis of the two digital signature schemes. 

